title: Support geolocation in the browser
date: 2006-08-08



A friend of mine wrote me asking how he could help with
geolocation in the browser. I tried to outline what I have
been thinking about and thought I should share.

We need to figure out what how we want to support
geolocation in the browser. I have prototyped a gps service
for Minimo and in doing so found the follow issues that we,
as a community, need to address:

1) privacy. how do we expose geolocation safely while making
sure that the user is always in control? how do I tell
Fandango.com one location accuracy (like a zip-code level
notion of where I am at), but a cool GPS Service my exact
location.

2) how do we want to expose this to script? What is the
right unit to describe location , what is the right form for
javascript (object verse class), should this fall under some
capabilities (cc/pp) framework? We should work with IE,
Opera, and Webkit to support some standard way of expressing
this new functionality.

3) how do we allow location plugins to drop into FF. For
example, we can support most GPSs via NMEA, but what about
players like SkyhookWireless or folks that are using other
means to discover location. What if these systems do not
really know about lat/long, but rather - named places -
(eg. your office, your kitchen, your kids school, in cube
#42). Moreover, we need to have a consistent way of figuring
out which is the best plugin to use when reflecting this
information.

I am sure there are other issues. If you are intersted in
helping, send me mail. if you have ideas, comment away.
