title: Minimo and "Gecko" Embedding
date: 2005-11-02

The Red Herring is running an article about a recent success
that Opera has had with Thales. Thales, as you might know is
a huge aerospace electronics firm. Apparently Thales is
going to use Opera in some of the in-flight entertainment
systems.

When I worked at AOL, we helped a team produce InstantAOL,
or the so called Gateway device. Our piece was insuring that
the browser worked correctly. We basically were just a
browser engine that they could use to render content - this
was effectively the birth of device embedding. We had no
control over the UI, after all it was their project.

Moving forward we did some Linux specific embedding work
that targeted ARM based devices. Again, the UI was
effectively just a test bed and someone else would decide on
the UI and features. Again, and after all, it was their
project.

The author points out that this deal may be an indicator
that the company is shifting its focus to markets where it
has an advantage over rivals like Firefox and IE. The
vertical market as well as the operator owned cell phone
market is a very hard place. In many ways, you are doing
professional services and developing a custom-ish solution
for each particular device|market. To make matters works, it
seams when you are doing this kind of one-off work, you are
more worried about the bottom line, than you are about
innovating new features.

This is very different than how I see Minimo. Minimo is
focused on creating a great browser for the users of cell
phones and PDA's without external deadlines, requirements,
or politics.
