title: Geolocation in Firefox 3.5 and Fennec
date: 2009-04-30
files: 2009/GeolocationDoorHanger.jpg

I’m excited to introduce a new feature in Firefox 3.5 Beta 4
that I’ve been working on called geolocation. Geolocation is
an opt-in tool that lets users share their location
information with web sites through Firefox and will enable a
new range of services on the web. Geolocation can make web
sites smarter and you more productive. Websites that use
geolocation will ask where you are in order to bring you
more relevant information, or to save you time while
searching. Letâ€™s say youâ€™re looking for a pizza
restaurant in your area. A website will be able to ask you
to share your location so that simply searching for
â€œpizzaâ€ will bring you the answers you needâ€¦no
further information or extra typing required.

This idea isnâ€™t new. We have been researching meshing
geolocation data and the web for a few years. Last year,
Mozilla Labs released an experimental addon, Geode, which
implemented the draft W3C Geolocation Specification. We
added support for the spec to Firefox 3.5 and “Fennec” (our
mobile browser which is in development) as well as a user
interface that put the user in control of which websites
could use location. However, we left it to add-ons to
implement the code that would actually figure out your
location, using any technique (GPS, WiFi or cell tower
triangulation, manual address entry) of their choosing. So,
with Firefox 3.1, 3.5 or Fennec, plus a third-party add-on,
users would be able to use location-enabled websites.

However, we were still left with a chicken-or-egg problem:
unless lots and lots of users installed an add-on, websites
wouldn’t have a significant audience for which to develop
location-enabled services; and without lots of useful web
content using the feature, users had no reason to install an
add-on.

We decided to investigate bundling a technology that would
provide an end-to-end solution, so that the feature would
work out of the box for users, and would give websites a
large enough potential user base to kick start the
development of innovative apps and services. We had learned
a lot from the discussions about the various add-ons that
had been built, and in other forums over the last few
years. Earlier this year, I hosted a talk on [Location in
Mozilla][] during which we reviewed many of the critical
privacy issues. We boiled these down to some key principles:
* protecting user privacy.

User privacy is super important to us and we believe that we
have the best privacy policies regarding your data. The use
of the WiFi data, IP addresses, associated protocol bits,
should never be used to spy on users, track individuals, or
shared without your permission.

* enabling web developers to use the API in an unencumbered
  way that would work in all browsers that implement the
  spec

Web developers can use a standard way of accessing
geolocation data and not have to worry about the underlying
geolocation provider. We don’t share with third-party
location provider(s) any information about websites the
user’s visiting; this protects both the user’s privacy, and
the website’s right to write to a web standard without fear
of any third party gaining insight into how the site is
being used.

* preserving user choice

This feature is completely opt-in! If you don’t do anything,
geolocation is never used. When a web page wants ask you for
your location, you get an dialog similar to the one
below. If you do nothing, the feature stays off by
default. Only if you press “Tell them”, will you send out
your location information. Furthermore, users are free to
use a different geolocation provider by installing addons.

![Image of the Firefox Doorhanger UI](2009/GeolocationDoorHanger.jpg)

I’m excited to introduce a new feature in Firefox 3.5 Beta 4
that I’ve been working on called geolocation. Geolocation is
an opt-in tool that lets users share their location
information with web sites through Firefox and will enable a
new range of services on the web. Geolocation can make web
sites smarter and you more productive. Websites that use
geolocation will ask where you are in order to bring you
more relevant information, or to save you time while
searching. Letâ€™s say youâ€™re looking for a pizza
restaurant in your area. A website will be able to ask you
to share your location so that simply searching for
â€œpizzaâ€ will bring you the answers you needâ€¦no
further information or extra typing required.

This idea isnâ€™t new. We have been researching meshing
geolocation data and the web for a few years. Last year,
Mozilla Labs released an experimental addon, Geode, which
implemented the draft W3C Geolocation Specification. We
added support for the spec to Firefox 3.5 and “Fennec” (our
mobile browser which is in development) as well as a user
interface that put the user in control of which websites
could use location. However, we left it to add-ons to
implement the code that would actually figure out your
location, using any technique (GPS, WiFi or cell tower
triangulation, manual address entry) of their choosing. So,
with Firefox 3.1, 3.5 or Fennec, plus a third-party add-on,
users would be able to use location-enabled websites.

However, we were still left with a chicken-or-egg problem:
unless lots and lots of users installed an add-on, websites
wouldn’t have a significant audience for which to develop
location-enabled services; and without lots of useful web
content using the feature, users had no reason to install an
add-on.

We decided to investigate bundling a technology that would
provide an end-to-end solution, so that the feature would
work out of the box for users, and would give websites a
large enough potential user base to kick start the
development of innovative apps and services. We had learned
a lot from the discussions about the various add-ons that
had been built, and in other forums over the last few
years. Earlier this year, I hosted a talk on Location in
Mozilla during which we reviewed many of the critical
privacy issues. We boiled these down to some key principles:
* protecting user privacy.

User privacy is super important to us and we believe that we
have the best privacy policies regarding your data. The use
of the WiFi data, IP addresses, associated protocol bits,
should never be used to spy on users, track individuals, or
shared without your permission.

* enabling web developers to use the API in an unencumbered
  way that would work in all browsers that implement the
  spec

Web developers can use a standard way of accessing
geolocation data and not have to worry about the underlying
geolocation provider. We don’t share with third-party
location provider(s) any information about websites the
user’s visiting; this protects both the user’s privacy, and
the website’s right to write to a web standard without fear
of any third party gaining insight into how the site is
being used.

* preserving user choice

This feature is completely opt-in! If you don’t do anything,
geolocation is never used. When a web page wants ask you for
your location, you get an dialog similar to the one
below. If you do nothing, the feature stays off by
default. Only if you press “Tell them”, will you send out
your location information. Furthermore, users are free to
use a different geolocation provider by installing addons.

* applicability to both Firefox and Fennec

To avoid fragmentation on the web, the geolocation feature
should be consistent between the desktop and mobile. The
truth really is that the line is getting blurred between
mobile and desktop. Calling the geolocation feature “mobile
only” discounts many use cases that are pretty important.

Given these principles and a strong desire to create an “out
of the box” experience in Firefox and Fennec, and to kick
start the location aware web, we are happy to announce that
Firefox 3.5 and Fennec will be using Google Location
Service. We found that we agreed on the many privacy
concerns around location. Do check out [Mozilla’s privacy
policy][] and [Google’s privacy policy][]. I am pretty excited
about these policies I think they are going to be the
industry standard when it comes to network based geolocation
providers.

Just to provide a bit of technical detail on what exactly is
going on, below I will walk through a simple geolocation
request.

1) A user goes to a page that has some Javascript that asks
for a Geolocation.

2) When the user loads that page, we put up a dialog.

3) If they don’t click anything, or click no, we do not do
any geolocation stuff and simply return an error to the
requestor.

4) If they click yes, we drop into this [bit of code][] which
packages up the WiFi Access Point data into JSON and sends
it to Google Location Services over HTTPS. The URL is
configurable by preferences (“geo.wifi.uri”). The data sent
includes a version number, access token, and an array of
public WiFi access points data. The access token basically
acts like a two week cookie, and if you clear cookies in the
browser, this value is deleted and a new one is used.

6) Lastly, the Google Location service returns a
location. It’s another json object that is an actual
location.

That’s it. For more information, check out the [Frequently
Asked Questions][]. Get ready for Firefox 3.5 and start
thinking about how you can location aware your web apps!
Here is the [spec][].

Got questions, feel free to ask. I am looking for
feedback. Comments welcome.

[Location in Mozilla]: http://air.mozilla.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/location-2009-03-04.ogg
[Mozilla's privacy policy]: http://en-us.www.mozilla.com/en-US/legal/privacy/firefox-en.html
[Google's privacy policy]: http://www.google.com/privacy-lsf.html
[bit of code]: http://mxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/dom/src/geolocation/NetworkGeolocationProvider.js#162
[Frequently Asked Questions]: http://en-us.www.mozilla.com/en-US/firefox/geolocation
[spec]: http://www.w3.org/TR/geolocation-API/
