title: My AirMozilla Geo Talk
date: 2009-03-05


hey, i gave a talk about geolocation on air.mozilla. please
check it out. Youâ€™ll need a Firefox 3.1 nightly or beta
releases watch the video.

In the video, I mentioned the strawman position statement
and here it is. I am interested in hearing what you think!

Privacy considerations for implementers of the Geolocation
API:

User Agents must not send geolocation data to websites
without expressed permission of the user. Browsers will
acquire permission through a user interface which will
include the document origin URI. All permissions should be
revocable, and applications should respect revoked
permissions.

Some User Agents will have prearranged trust relationship
that do not require such user interfaces. For example,
Firefox will present a user interface the when example.com
performs a geolocation request. However, a voip telephone
may not present any user interface when using a geolocation
to perform an E911 function.

Privacy considerations for recipients of location
information:

The two primary concerns regarding recipients of geolocation
data are retention and retransmission. Recipient of location
information should retain location information only as long
as required. Users must be allowed to update and delete
location information that they have posted. Recipient of
location information should not retransmit the location
information without the user’s consent. Care should be taken
when retransmitting and use of HTTPS is
encouraged. Furthermore, a clear and accessible privacy
policy should be made available to all users that details
the usage of location data.
