title: Orientation in Firefox and beyond
date: 2009-08-23

One of the coolest apps I saw when the iPhone came out was
the wooden balance game Labyrinth.Â  You basically tilt your
phone to move a ball around the screen, avoiding holes, and
trying to get the ball to a goal.Â  It made use of a feature
of many modern devices — accelerometers.

Obviously clear that there should be a webapp for doing just
that.Â  What was missing was a javascript API.

In recent Mozilla trunk builds, I have added support for an
orientation event.Â  This new event will allow you to build
applications and listen for changes in orientation.Â  (note,
the first platform to support such an event is any MacBook
Pro.Â  Others will follow).

Simple Call:

To use this new event, you will add an event listener as you
normally would:

         window.addEventListener(“MozOrientation”, orientationChange, true);

Your callback will be called, when there is a change in
acceleration, passing the current orientation:

              function orientationChange(o) {
              }

Simple Result:

The passed object has 3 attributes – “x”, “y” and “z”.Â
Each value is between -1 and 1 where zero is the “balance
point”.Â  For example, suppose you device is a MacBook Pro
and it is sitting on a desk that is perfectly level, you
would expect to see:

      x = 0
      y = 0
      z = 1

x is the axis in the direction from the left side of the
keyboard to the right side of the keyboard (basically the
axis that is along the home row keys) is level.Â  If I lift
up the left side of the keyboard, x will increase.Â  if I
lift up the right side, x will decrease.

y is the axis in the direction from the front of the laptop
(where the mouse is) to the back of the laptop.Â  If I lift
up the front of the laptop (the side closest to me), y will
decrease.Â  If I left the back towards the front, y will
increase.

Got that?Â  Yeah, physics is pretty hard. :-(

x and y can easily be visualized.Â  If you have a recent
trunk build for the Mac, try loading this demo page:

      http://people.mozilla.org/~dougt/ball.html

z basically will tell you that the laptop is sitting right
side up.Â  if z was -1, you would know that the laptop
(probably closed) and is sitting on its screen.Â  Of course
the value will change as you rotate the laptop / device in
this direction.

Right now, there is only support for the Macbook Pro.Â  It
is pretty easy to add support for different OSs.Â  We have
code for Samsung Windows Mobile devices, and for the HTC
Windows Mobile devices.Â  We still need support for linux
and for Windows.Â  If you are interested in adding support
file a bug and start looking at

http://mxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/widget/public/nsIAccelerometer.idl

The API isn’t fixed and may change.Â  I do invite you to
comment.Â  Keep in mind that we want a really simple and
straight forward API to expose orientation events to web
developers.Â  If your response has either “RDF” or “DCCI” in
it, please reread the last sentence.Â  :-)

Thanks again and hope you enjoy.
