title: Desktop Notifications
date: 2010-06-21



This is a feature that may come to a browser some day.Â  I
am interesting in your thoughts:

Desktop Notifications

Desktop notifications allow a web page to notify the user
using system level services, such as Growl, in a clean,
safe, and easy to use manner.

The code is very simple:

    navigator.notification.notify("Another Desktop Notification",
                                           "Check out my icon",
                                           "http://dougt.org/me.jpg");

and the result is something you’d expect from a
notification. On the Mac, the notification may look like:

![Image of a desktop notification](2010/DesktopNotification.jpg)


You can get more sophisticated by adding a callback when the
user clicks on the Desktop Notification.

A user must grant each site permission before they can use
Desktop Notifications.Â We will use the familiar
notification bar (the text isn’t final.Â Also, these will
end up looking quite different in future releases of
Firefox.)

Get involved:

If you like or dislike this feature, please just leave a
comment.

If you like to follow the implementation details, you can
follow bug 573588.

You can try out the engineering builds.Â  There are bound to
be a few bugz.Â  If you see anything funky, please let me
know.

If you are using the above engineering builds, you can try
out Desktop Notifications.

More details:

I reviewed two draft specifications.Â  The first is the
WebNotification specification and the other is the Google
Gears NotificationAPI.Â  I found both of these APIs more
complex than what was required.Â  Clearly both of these
other APIs have use cases that are not address by my
proposal.Â  But for basic notification from the browser, not
much is required.

Looking at what Growl and other system level notification
services provide, you basically only need a title, a
description, and an icon.Â  For fun, I added one callback if
the user clicks on the notification while it is on screen.

Next Steps

You tell me.Â  Is this something you’d like to see in the
browser?Â  Does the API work for your use cases?

Let me know what you think!
