title: Policies attached to data
date: 2010-03-23



Everyday millions of people upload pictures, update their
status message, and shop online.Â  In each of these actions,
users have expressed consent and the browser is the
instrument that enables the user to perform these various
tasks.Â  When I upload a picture to a site, it is arguably
governed by the terms and conditions of that site and local
laws.

There have been some requests to require all web browsers to
transmit rules that instruct web pages on how long they can
hold onto data.Â  Passing rules along with data is a bad
idea because it may be ignored due to existing rules and
simply because it is unenforceable.

Suppose that a default rule that a web browser would send is
â€œonly keep this data for 2 weeksâ€.Â  When a user goes
to upload and share a picture with their friends, there are
existing terms and conditions in place merely by using the
web site which may override this 2 week retention rule.Â
The website might say plainly that uploaded pictures will be
archived forever which is in conflict with the rules that
are associated with the picture.Â  This leads to user
confusion as the expectations may differ.

Using the same example as above, there is no way for the
browser to verify that the website does honor this retention
rule.Â  After all, what a recipient does with a piece of
data is outside the scope of what a browser sees.Â  Any
browser user-interface would not be able to assert any fact
regarding these rules.Â Â  Thus, the default rules would
never be able to be changed by the user.Â  And because these
defaults would never be seen by the user or changed in any
way, all will most likely ignore them.

Currently, one of the most sensitive data that people share
with a website is their credit card number.Â  Browsers have
never passed rules to a website when an e-commerce
transaction occurs.Â  Yet, sites do not retain credit card
numbers without permission.Â  In this case, there are
regional laws governing the usage of credit card numbers.

This approach of putting legal protection around data is
best.Â  If a certain type of data is deemed more sensitive,
it should be treated that way legally and outside of the way
it is transfer. Credit card numbers can be transferred in
any manner â€“ from the browser to a website, or from a
postcard to a brick and mortar â€“ both methods are
protected.

