title: Fennec and Native Android UIs
date: 2011-09-26

Bringing up a User Interface (UI) as fast as possible is a
very important goal and benchmark of any application. People
don’t want to wait for their applications to load. Most
applications on Android show a UI in under 300 milliseconds
(ms). Fennec doesn’t hit that goal and is a major concern
for us.

The problem is that Gecko (our rendering engine) isn’t
loaded when Fennec starts. We need to load Gecko into
memory, start Gecko, then wait while it renders our UI from
XUL. This is a lot of waiting around for us to show a
relatively simple UI.

At the Mozilla AllHands, Andreas Gal, Chris Jones, and
Patrick Walton built a simple browser using a Android native
front end instead of XUL. They showed a simple native UI
around Gecko could be started in under 300 milliseconds. The
idea is that the user immediately sees a familiar browser UI
and while they are typing a uri or interacting with the UI,
we load Gecko in the background. Their demo, although not
complete, was dramatic and did not show any startup
problems.

Using a native UI does imply certain things. Clearly
add-ons, specifically XUL overlays, will not work
as-is. Mozilla’s Embedding API has been kinda-sorta
deprecated and we may need to use those APIs to make a
better app. There may be other issues that come up.

To figure out these issues, we are starting a team to build
out a more full featured demo. The work can be followed on
github (git@github.com:snorp/mozilla-central.git branch
faster). If you are interested, please drop me an email, or
send me a pull request.

Lastly, and most importantly, we will continue the existing
XUL-based Fennec project and future Firefox on Mobile will
still be based on the XUL front-end. The team will continue
focusing on startup performance, memory usage, bugs fixes,
and features. The Native Android UI project is an
investigation at this point.
