title: Joey Like Things
date: 2008-02-27

So, last year I was working on a Mozilla Labs project named
Joey. If you were interested in this sort thing, there are a
couple Joey like services that you should check out.

First is something called ShifD, and as you can tell by the
spelling, it is very much web 2.0. :-) ShifD basically
allows you to edit your content on their site, then they
provide that content, in a easy-to-view format, on your
phone. For example, suppose you want to remember a grocery
list. Right now, you might email or SMS yourself. Using
ShiftD, you simply go to the ShiftD site, login, and write
yourself a note. Then, when you are at the store, you can
browse to their site, and see this note. You can do similar
things for links to webpages, as well as maps. The services
is very simple and very clean looking. They provide a
bookmarklet to allow easy upload of links. This is pretty
cool for me since I skim lots of blogs and need something
that allows me to mark a page as “remember to read this”.

WebClip2Go, lacks the hip web 2.0 name, but makes up for it
with what it does. One of the most compelling pieces of
Mozilla Joey was the ability for us to process
microsummaries on the service side, and be able to “send
your phone” just the content you are interested. This is
exactly what WebClip2Go does. Users can create and share
clipping of their favorite sites. For example, consider the
NYTimes. Suppose I only cared about the most emailed stories
of the day. I would have to load this entire page, then
scroll to the bottom:

This is the WebClip for the New York Times “Most Emailed
Article”:
