title: Joey retired today
date: 2008-08-14

Back in January, I spoke a bit about Project Joey. This
morning wil clouser told me that we are running out of space
on a shared nfs that holds logs for some other systems.

The Joey project uses some space on this mount to store
users uploads (10gb for users uploads, and about 3 gb for
our cache). After thinking about the amount of time I put
into Joey over the last few month (goose egg), and after
discovering that Joey hasn't actually processing uploads
since July, I decided to retire Joey.

This isn't a sad thing. We got lots of people starting to
think about the web on mobile in different ways. Joey was a
catalyst to starting Weave. Commercial implementations of
similar functions, such as beta of ZipClip, exist. And, from
the beginning, the source has been open, and we have
provided help for anyone to setup their own server.

The focus now is Fennec. Fennec will have Weave and addon
support. You will be able to write extensions that work in
Firefox and (without much modification) work in Fennec. This
means that making things like Joey using the Weave back
end will be very interesting. The Weave server can expose
content to other browsers, allowing Weave to work
everywhere. If you are interested in helping on Weave,
please do send mail to Dan Mills. If you are interested in
helping on Fennec, join #mobile on irc.mozilla.org.

Thanks for participating!
