title: Mouse Pressure Support in Mozilla
date: 2008-12-10


A few months back, I prototyped a device feature that would
allow the MouseEvent to also carry an attribute of how hard
you were pushing down on the screen. This evening, Oleg
Romashin, pushed an implementation into the mozilla-central.

With this new addition, you can build a new class of
interactions. For example, you could imagine a painting web
application that varies the size of the pen’s stroke
depending on how hard the user is pressing down on the
screen. Or the web browser itself could scroll faster or
slower depending on how hard you are pressing down.

To use this feature, simply register to listen to mouse
events how you normally would, and then check the value of
the new attribute mozPressure.

    target.addEventListener(“click”, listenerForClick, true);

    function listenerForClick(event) {
        if (event.mozPressure != undefined)
           alert(event.mozPressure);
        }
    }

The value is defined between 0 and 1. The harder you press,
the closer the number gets to 1. You can also use this to
determine if the user is using a stylus, or if the user is
using their thumb. Oleg has pointed out that, at least on
the Nokia N-series devices, different values are grouped in
such a manner:

    0.0 – light touch with stylus
    0.1-0.2 – normal stylus touch
    0.2-0.5 – normal finger press
    0.5-0.75 – Fat thumb press
    0.75 – 0.99 – palm press 

This feature will most likely be in Mozilla Fennec, as well
as future version of Firefox. It is a mozilla-only feature
(notice the “moz” prefix on the attribute name), but i would
think this would be something Mozilla would be interested in
standardizing (maybe not this exact behavior, but something
similar).

Currently, it is only supported on Gtk, but I do not see any
reason why this wouldn’t also be supported on other
platforms that expose this functionality. We would love to
have feedback on this new attribute.
