title: Minimo and Mobile
date: 2007-11-13


Over the past few years the Minimo project has provided (1)
a set of build and runtime options optimized for resource
constrained devices, and (2) A XUL-based UI for prototyping
and experimenting with new user interfaces for navigating
and viewing web content and general browsing on mobile
devices.

Recently you have probably read that the Mozilla Corporation
is building the embeddable version of Mozilla and a mobile
Firefox. In the new and expanded mobile effort the project
will create a standards-based open-source browser engine and
full open source development stack based on Mozilla
technology, optimized for mobile devices, and embeddable on
a variety of device targets. This new work will replace the
Minimo project.

If you are a developer using Minimo as the basis for your
embedding needs, this new effort will help you. This is
picking up where Minimoâ€™s build configure left off, and
further squeezing and optimizing Mozilla.

Although we havenâ€™t committed to specific platforms, all
of the effort that was focused on the Minimo front end will
be refocused on this new project. This new browser product
will take advantage of lessons learned in minimo UI
prototyping and experimentation. It will also include
support for XUL-based add-ons, and deliver on Firefox’s key
principles of ease-of-use and accessibility.

We hope you can join the conversation. Most of the
developers and interested people hang out on irc.mozilla.org
#mobile. If you have questions, or need clarification,
please drop by.
