title: Server Side Microsummaries
date: 2007-01-10



Firefox 2 supports Microsummaries which provide a powerful
way to get to the content that is most interesting on a
page. The current feature of microsummaries in Firefox is
called LiveTitles which basically allows you have the
visible “name” of the bookmark be dynamic. There are a few
examples here and here, and general microsummary information
is here.

I have been experimenting with Microsummaries. Basically
what they do is transform one type of XML or html to
another. So for a given page, we run a set of rules across
it and produce a result. For example, the LiveTitle feature
in Firefox grabs the pages content, applies an xslt
transformation, and the result is used as the name of the
bookmark. A while ago, I was asking Myk to give the
developer some way to get notified when the result of a
microsummary changes (Myk is working on the patch. need bug
number.). However, it was quite obvious that I would want to
know about microsummary result changes even when Firefox
wasn’t running. For example, maybe you want to be SMS’ed or
emailed when something changes.

I was discussing this and Dietrich Ayala told me about a
microsummary engine he wrote in PHP. With it you can do
something like:


    $ms = new microsummary();
    $ms->load($file_path_to_ms_generator);
    $ms->execute($url_to_apply_microsummary_generator_against);

    echo “Microsummary Result\n” . $ms->result . “\n”;

We can use it to test microsummary generators. If you
building a custom “hand rolled” generator, you can use this
to ensure that your generator is working without having to
mess around with it in Firefox.

Here is the code:

http://svn.mozilla.org/labs/joey/trunk/servers/runner/microsummary.php
